Hello everybody and welcome to this lecture where we are going to do a quick tip about recentering
your objects.
Now at the moment we've got a situation where our origin is all the way in one top corner of our model
whereas realistically we want it somewhere else.
Now depending on how we're going to use our model will depend on where the origin goes.
But typically I would say if we go round to a top view here that will want to place it somewhere in
the middle.
There are a couple of ways of doing that.
You could indeed hop into edit mode and start moving your geometry around until it was accurate.
And because we know the size of our squares we could pretty much align it perfectly.
However that's not what I want to do.
That's that's not precise enough for me at this point in time.
It could be more than enough.
And there you go finished.
But what we want to do in this particular case is we can access the quick contextual menu by pressing
the right mouse button when we get that we get a series of options appear one of which is setting the
origin.
So one of the things that we can do is move the geometry to the origin which can be really useful.
But since the origins are already in the center of the scene that would be the one that we would pick.
So in order to really highlight that let's go ahead and just move this out of the way so it's really
really far from the origin.
So if we right click and set the origin geometry to origin so we know that the origin.
Well it looks like it's in the middle of the scene.
Let's go in check that's.
Let's go.
Whilst we're in object mode.
Bring open the sidebar.
And here we can see the location is 0 0 0.
So the location of the origin is smack bang in the middle of our world where we want it to be.
Okay.
So the next thing we need to do now we know that the origin is in the correct location is decide how
we're setting our origin.
So in this particular case because the geometry is not centered about the origin we can move the geometry
to the origin.
That's exactly what we want to do.
But whilst we're here let's have a look at those other options as well.
So let's undo that and do the origin to geometry.
You probably already guess what that one's going to do but we can see here now the origin is in the
middle of our geometry.
That's really useful because if our geometry was in a certain location and if we wanted to rotate it
around that geometry it will do that easily.
It wouldn't do that easily if it was elsewhere like so.
That's far far different.
Okay.
So the next one.
Let's just have a look.
What is the next one origin to 3D cursor.
We switch over to positioning the cursor.
All you can do that will shift and right click as well.
Then we can move the origins wherever the 3D cursor is so we can right click set origin to 3D cursor
again not that useful in this particular case but quite useful where we need to set a pivot points to
a very particular position.
And then finally, the final two come hand in hand with each other.
So we've got the center of mass according to the surface and the center of mass according to the volume.
And this is all to do with calculating physics and using the origin as that center of mass.
In this particular case that will do exactly the same as origins geometry because our geometry is infinitesimally
small so we don't need to worry about that.
But for the moment what we need to do is position our location of our origin to 0 0 0 right click set
of origin and move the geometry to the origin.
Perfect.
And there we go that's all aligned and set up and that hopefully gives you an idea about how we can
go ahead and move things around the origin and move the origin as well.
And I'll see you all in the next lecture.